# Frontend task app

This project is a frontend application that displays a list of articles from a given API. 

It has been created using React. It uses Babel transpiler and webpack bundler. 

## Setup

To set up this project, in project directory run:
> `$ npm install`

Then, to start the mock API:
> `$ npm run server`

and finnaly start the frontend development server with:
> `$ npm run dev`

To run the eslint on `src/` folder, run:
> `$ npm run lint`

To create a production build, run:
>`$ npm run build`

This will output `index.html` and `main.js.gz` files to the `dist/` folder.

## Solution
### Logic
Redux hasn't been used in this project because it doesn't make sense to set it up in such a small project - it would not bring any value beside additional KBs in bundle size.
There is only one stateful component `App.js`, which is responsible for fetching the articles and handling errors. `axios` is being used for fetching the data because I really like this library, as it is very pleasant to use.
In case of an error, the application will retry fetching the data two times and, in case of failure, ask the user to try again in a minute.

In general, I was trying not to overcomplicate things while still implement all features. 

### Data parsing
All fields of an fetched article are checked. If article id, date or category has been corrupted, then the article will not be displayed.
Title, preamble and image url types are checked, and if they are different than string, they are assigned an empty string. 

### Article date, sorting
Article's unix timestamp is generated by spliting the date string into 3 elements and then feeding them to `dayjs`, which is a very lightweight date and time manipulation library (good alternative for heavy libraries like `moment.js`). Months has been *translated* from Norwegian language.
The `ArticlesList` component has a method to sort the articles by date - it uses generated unix timestamp for that.

### Styling
The application is fully responsive and can be used both on mobile devices as well as on computers. The styling is minimalistic, but elegant and very readable.

### Other
At least one topic has to be selected - user cannot uncheck both options at once.

Article photo will not be displayed if there is a problem with it (eg. wrong url) - in my opinion this is a better solution than displaying default photo, as it can be misleading.

The project uses SVG icons (the one being logo, and the sorting arrow), that are being bundled with application.

Project uses a few optimization techniques such as prop types removal in final build, babel minify preset, UglifyJsPlugin and bundle compression.
Final build size of compressed `main.js.gz` file is only 52.7 KB.

### What can be better?
Styling could be more interesting, as now it is very basic, without any specific decorations. Implementing dark mode is surely the next thing to do :) Adding some transitions for the articles would be cool, eg. fading in and out. Probably layout structure could be more refined too. Also, I am not sure if I have used all capabilities of Sass. 

To limit bundle size I could get rid of `dayjs` (2.7 KB), `axios` (4.3 KB) and `react-truncate` (2.2 KB) packages, but using them saved me some time, while not adding a lot KB to the bundle size.

More specific error handling also might be an improvement.
